Ladies and gentlemen, Prince of Tennessee, as I make this telecast, Congress is beginning
to roll toward adjournment.
By the time you see this, it is possible that this session may have ended.
A number of important items of business hang in the balance, however.
The mutual security appropriation bill has just been reported out of committee.
We on the committee set until midnight the other night to hammer out the many items in
this bill.
It contains provisions for continuing our Cold War defenses on many fronts, economic
and military.
As long as the free nations stand up to Soviet Russia, free men will remain free.
If we lower our guard, the result could be suicide.
After T2V toes were the President, the Congress managed to vote out a housing bill, which
is apparently acceptable to the President.
It has been hard for this Congress to find anything that is acceptable all the way around
to the White House.
For example, we had to give up a most vital item in the housing bill in order to get it
past the creeping vetoism, which seems to have infected the White House.
This item was for $50 million for construction of college classrooms.
The administration expressed great concern over education after it was learned our country
was behind the Russians in space missile development.
It seems that this concern has diminished when we must give up appropriations of such
funds for winning the long-range battle of education with Russia.
Well, the public works bill was another which ran head-on into the President's fountain
pen.
Twice he wrote no across Congress's effort to move forward with flood control and other
public works needed everywhere in the nation.
The first time this bill came back to us, Congress cut 2.5 percent across the board out
of it, reducing it almost $100,000 below the President's budget request.
He vetoed this also.
Well, I'm glad to report that the Congress has overwritten the second public works veto.
The bill contains two much-needed projects in West Tennessee.
One is the West Tennessee drainage projects, which would give relief from the continual
flooding of farmlands and highways in the Forkadir and Obayan River areas.
The other is a Wolf River project at Memphis, which would permit a new channel for the wolf
to alleviate the flooded Shelby County bottomlands and to remove the somewhat famous unpleasant
smells from north and downtown Memphis.
As you can see, it has been an uphill battle against the President's veto.
I am very hopeful that he will not veto the Highway Financing Act of which shows past
the other night.
Senator Gore and I and many others fought hard on the floor to continue the vital interstate
highway program without slapping more gasoline taxes on the people.
We were defeated, but at least the tax increase was held to one cent and limited to 21 months.
This means that the states will be able to meet commitments to contractors and the highway
program will not bog down.
I'm happy to report that Senator Gore and I were successful in having an amendment to
this bill adopted, which provides the necessary funds to build a highway bridge over TVAs
pickwicked dam.
The region around Savannah, Tennessee has needed this for some time.
We are assured by the Bureau of Public Roads that our amendment now makes it possible for
them to conclude negotiations with the State to act on this vital link in our highway system.
As the Congress struggles with its concluding workload, I'm sure that you have heard about
Senator Wayne Marce's delaying tactics.
The Senator from Oregon has been the subject to considerable criticism for this.
I would like to say in his behalf that I feel sure that he is motivated by principles
with your sound.
Senator Marce maintains that the Senate often acts too hastily and without sufficient debate
and deliberation when it's trying to close up business at the end of a session.
He also maintains that the Congress of the United States should not turn tail and run
out the back door just because premier Kruchev is scheduled to come in the front door.
I think it should be said in Senator Marce's defense that he is sincere in his position.
I believe it's healthy to the Senate to have a dissentor like Senator Marce around.
It keeps our eye on the ball and in the long run reminds us all that we are here to do
a thorough job and to not run hastily through the nation's business or run away from responsibility.
I hope I will have an opportunity to see you all again next week to report on the final
actions of Congress.
Until then, best wishes and goodbye.